README.md, before:

![Rubberduck](http://i.stack.imgur.com/taIMg.png)

Rubberduck is a COM Add-In for the VBA IDE that makes VBA development even more enjoyable, by extending the Visual Basic Editor (VBE) with menus, toolbars and toolwindows that enable things we didn't even think were possible when we first started this project.

If you're learning VBA, Rubberduck can help you avoid a few common beginner mistakes, and can probably show you a trick or two - even if you're only ever writing *macros*. If you're a more advanced programmer, you will appreciate the richness of [Rubberduck's feature set](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/wiki/Features).

[**Follow us on Twitter!**](https://twitter.com/rubberduckvba)

[**Rubberduck Wiki**](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/wiki)

---

#Contributing

If you're a C# developer looking for a fun project to contribute to, feel free to fork the project and 
[come meet the devs in Code Review's "VBA" chatroom](http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/14929/vba) - we'll be happy to answer your questions and help you help us take the VBE into the 21st century!

Some issues are tagged with [help-wanted](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/labels/help-wanted), but that doesn't mean we can't use some help with anything else in the project - if this project interests you, we want to hear from you!

---

#Installation

Visit our releases page, [download the installer](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/releases/tag/v1.1), and run the Setup.exe.

Please note that this software has only been tested on Office 2007 & 2010.
Please feel free to test it on other versions and [submit any bugs on our issue tracker](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/issues).

If you're **upgrading** from a previous version, you will need to completely uninstall it before installing the newest release. Be sure to back up the `rubberduck.config` file in the `\AppData\Roaming\Rubberduck\` directory prior to installation.

---

#License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Mathieu Guindon & Christopher McClellan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---

#Attributions

##Software & Libraries

###[ANTLR](http://www.antlr.org/)

As of v1.2, Rubberduck is empowered by the awesomeness of ANTLR.

> **What is ANTLR?**

> *ANTLR (ANother Tool for Language Recognition) is a powerful parser generator for reading, processing, executing, or translating structured text or binary files. It's widely used to build languages, tools, and frameworks. From a grammar, ANTLR generates a parser that can build and walk parse trees.*

We're not doing half of what we could be doing with this amazing tool. Try it, see for yourself!

###[LibGit2Sharp](https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2sharp)

**What is LibGit2Sharp?**

LibGit2Sharp is the library that has allowed us to integrate Git right into the VBA IDE (and as a nice bonus, expose a nice API that handles the nitty gritty of importing source files to and from the IDE to a repo for you).

> LibGit2Sharp brings all the might and speed of libgit2, a native Git implementation, to the managed world of .Net and Mono.

**Okay, so what is [libgit2](https://libgit2.github.com/)?**

> libgit2 is a portable, pure C implementation of the Git core methods provided as a re-entrant linkable library with a solid API, allowing you to write native speed custom Git applications in any language which supports C bindings.

Which basically means it's a reimplementation of Git in C. It also [happens to be the technology Microsoft uses for their own Git integration with Visual Studio](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/GitSupportForVisualStudioGitTFSAndVSPutIntoContext.aspx).

##Icons

We didn't come up with these icons ourselves! Here's who did what:

###[Fugue Icons](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/)

This beautiful suite of professional-grade icons packs over 3,570 icons (16x16). You name it, there's an icon for that.

> (C) 2012 Yusuke Kamiyamane. All rights reserved. 
These icons are licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).
If you can't or don't want to provide attribution, please [purchase a royalty-free license](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/).

###[Microsoft Visual Studio Image Library](http://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/download/details.aspx?id=35825)

Icons in the `./Resources/Microsoft/` directory are licensed under Microsoft's Software License Terms, must be used accordingly with their meaning / file name.

> You have a right to Use and Distribute these files. This means that you are free to copy and use these images in documents and projects that you create, but you may not modify them in anyway.

For more information, please see the EULAs in the [./Resources/Microsoft/ directory](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/tree/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft).

 * [Visual Studio 2013 Image Library EULA](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/blob/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft/Visual%20Studio%202013%20Image%20Library%20EULA.rtf)
 * [Visual Studio 2012 Image Library EULA](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/blob/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft/Visual%20Studio%202012%20Image%20Library%20EULA.rtf)

Commit message:

Added Minimum System Requirements to ReadMe

README.md, after:

![Rubberduck](http://i.stack.imgur.com/taIMg.png)

Rubberduck is a COM Add-In for the VBA IDE that makes VBA development even more enjoyable, by extending the Visual Basic Editor (VBE) with menus, toolbars and toolwindows that enable things we didn't even think were possible when we first started this project.

If you're learning VBA, Rubberduck can help you avoid a few common beginner mistakes, and can probably show you a trick or two - even if you're only ever writing *macros*. If you're a more advanced programmer, you will appreciate the richness of [Rubberduck's feature set](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/wiki/Features).

[**Follow us on Twitter!**](https://twitter.com/rubberduckvba)

[**Rubberduck Wiki**](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/wiki)

---

#Contributing

If you're a C# developer looking for a fun project to contribute to, feel free to fork the project and 
[come meet the devs in Code Review's "VBA" chatroom](http://chat.stackexchange.com/rooms/14929/vba) - we'll be happy to answer your questions and help you help us take the VBE into the 21st century!

Some issues are tagged with [help-wanted](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/labels/help-wanted), but that doesn't mean we can't use some help with anything else in the project - if this project interests you, we want to hear from you!

---

#Installation

Visit our releases page, [download the installer](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/releases/tag/v1.1), and run the Setup.exe.

If you're **upgrading** from version 1.0, you will need to completely uninstall it before installing the newest release. This isn't necessary when upgrading from newer versions. Also, be sure to back up the `rubberduck.config` file in the `\AppData\Roaming\Rubberduck\` directory prior to installation.

##System Requirements

- Windows Vista, 7, or 8
- .Net Framework 4.5
- Microsoft Office 

Please note that this software has only been tested on Office 97, 2007, & 2010.
Please feel free to test it on other versions and [submit any bugs on our issue tracker](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/issues).

---

#License

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Mathieu Guindon & Christopher McClellan

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

---

#Attributions

##Software & Libraries

###[ANTLR](http://www.antlr.org/)

As of v1.2, Rubberduck is empowered by the awesomeness of ANTLR.

> **What is ANTLR?**

> *ANTLR (ANother Tool for Language Recognition) is a powerful parser generator for reading, processing, executing, or translating structured text or binary files. It's widely used to build languages, tools, and frameworks. From a grammar, ANTLR generates a parser that can build and walk parse trees.*

We're not doing half of what we could be doing with this amazing tool. Try it, see for yourself!

###[LibGit2Sharp](https://github.com/libgit2/libgit2sharp)

**What is LibGit2Sharp?**

LibGit2Sharp is the library that has allowed us to integrate Git right into the VBA IDE (and as a nice bonus, expose a nice API that handles the nitty gritty of importing source files to and from the IDE to a repo for you).

> LibGit2Sharp brings all the might and speed of libgit2, a native Git implementation, to the managed world of .Net and Mono.

**Okay, so what is [libgit2](https://libgit2.github.com/)?**

> libgit2 is a portable, pure C implementation of the Git core methods provided as a re-entrant linkable library with a solid API, allowing you to write native speed custom Git applications in any language which supports C bindings.

Which basically means it's a reimplementation of Git in C. It also [happens to be the technology Microsoft uses for their own Git integration with Visual Studio](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/GitSupportForVisualStudioGitTFSAndVSPutIntoContext.aspx).

##Icons

We didn't come up with these icons ourselves! Here's who did what:

###[Fugue Icons](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/)

This beautiful suite of professional-grade icons packs over 3,570 icons (16x16). You name it, there's an icon for that.

> (C) 2012 Yusuke Kamiyamane. All rights reserved. 
These icons are licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/).
If you can't or don't want to provide attribution, please [purchase a royalty-free license](http://p.yusukekamiyamane.com/).

###[Microsoft Visual Studio Image Library](http://www.microsoft.com/en-ca/download/details.aspx?id=35825)

Icons in the `./Resources/Microsoft/` directory are licensed under Microsoft's Software License Terms, must be used accordingly with their meaning / file name.

> You have a right to Use and Distribute these files. This means that you are free to copy and use these images in documents and projects that you create, but you may not modify them in anyway.

For more information, please see the EULAs in the [./Resources/Microsoft/ directory](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/tree/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft).

 * [Visual Studio 2013 Image Library EULA](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/blob/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft/Visual%20Studio%202013%20Image%20Library%20EULA.rtf)
 * [Visual Studio 2012 Image Library EULA](https://github.com/retailcoder/Rubberduck/blob/master/RetailCoder.VBE/Resources/Microsoft/Visual%20Studio%202012%20Image%20Library%20EULA.rtf)
